Data Model
"column_name"	"data_type"
"id"	"integer"
"title"	"character varying"
"description"	"text"
"dueDate"	"timestamp with time zone"
"priority"	"character varying"
"assignee"	"character varying"
"status"	"character varying"
"createdAt"	"timestamp with time zone"
"updatedAt"	"timestamp with time zone"

Data Model outline
Task ID
Description: A unique identifier for each task. This is crucial for differentiating between tasks, especially when performing updates or deletions.
Data Type: Typically, this would be an integer or a UUID (universally unique identifier).
Properties: Primary key, auto-increment (for integers) or auto-generated (for UUIDs).
Title
Description: A brief, descriptive title for the task. This helps users quickly identify the nature of the task at a glance.
Data Type: String (VARCHAR)
Properties: Not nullable, as every task should have a title for clarity.
Description
Description: A more detailed explanation of what the task involves. This can include specifics that the title might not convey, offering room for detailed instructions or notes.
Data Type: Text (TEXT), as it can vary in length and might need to accommodate more extended descriptions.
Properties: Nullable, as not all tasks might need an extended description.
Status
Description: Indicates the current state of the task. The status helps users manage their workflow by seeing which tasks are pending, in progress, or completed.
Data Type: Enumerated type (ENUM) or String, typically containing values like 'pending', 'in progress', 'completed'.
Properties: Not nullable, as each task must have a status to manage its lifecycle properly.
Created At
Description: The timestamp when the task was created. This is automatically set at the time the task is added to the database.
Data Type: Timestamp
Properties: Not nullable, auto-generated by the database. This field is crucial for tracking when tasks are added and for historical data analysis.
Updated At
Description: The timestamp when the task was last updated. This field is critical for tracking the most recent changes made to a task, such as status updates or description edits.
Data Type: Timestamp
Properties: Not nullable, auto-updated by the database whenever any other field in the record is modified.
Why This Data Model Works Well
Scalability: The choice of data types and properties ensures that the database can efficiently handle a growing number of tasks without performance issues.
Flexibility: Fields like Description and Status allow for detailed task management and the ability to adapt to different types of workflows.
Integrity: The use of non-nullable fields for crucial information like Title, Status, and timestamps ensures that the data remains consistent and reliable.
Auditability: Timestamp fields help track the lifecycle of each task, useful for audits, troubleshooting, and historical analysis.


